J.D.K
java development kit
1.It contains J.R.E
Java runtime environment  -> java runtime environment allows Programs to run and it includes
library and jvm(java virtual machine)
Jvm execute the byte code into any operation system ,that's the main feature of the jvm , user do not need to convert
the byte code into any specific code to run on operating system

JDK = JRE + development tool
JRE = JVM + libraries

Compiler means that convert the source code into byte code

-- variables
2 types
1.Primitive Type
2.Reference Type

Primitive type -> int, float,double, char, boolean (stack)
Reference type -> String, array, object memory(stack) that points to the (heap)

The Stack: Holds the variable name and the specific memory address (the "pointer").
The Heap: Holds the actual data (the characters in the String, the elements in the Array,
or the fields of the Object).

Note - Use less 'new' keyword because it is strong contestant for the GB(garbage collector)

-- arithmetic operators
-- + , - , * , /
-- In Java, Arithmetic operators (+, -, *, /) always have higher precedence than Assignment operators (=, +=, -=).

-- increment variables
++x (pre-increment)
x++ (post-increment)  , same for other

how x++ works ??
2 areas
1.local variable array (storage lockers for the variables)
2.oprand stack ('workspace where calculation happens')

whatever the value of x will store in the local variable array then
operand stack come and perform the operation
then it will push the output directly to the local variable array
but value of x will still remains the same in oprand stack.
1.load
2.operation

how ++x works ??
so jvm goes directly on local variable array and update the value from 5 to 6
and then it will takes the new value and push it into oprand stack , so it means whatever next operation uses this value
it will show new updated value
1.operation
2.load

-- User input Scanner
How scanner input works ?
Scanner sc = new Scanner(System.in);
Scanner sc is the reference
new Scanner is the object it will help you to create the object into heap area

-- (System.in)
scanner itself nor able to read the dat which is coming from the keyboard
so System.in will help to read the data
(Standard input stream) represent the row byte which is coming from the keyboard
Scanner act as filter() or wrapper() to give the direction that input stream.


-- constants
in java we don't have constants we use the final keyword
that means if value fixed it can't be replace

-- primitive constant: the value can't changed
-- object constant: the reference can't be changed but the data inside object can be changed.


-- typecasting
-- Widening Casting (implicit)
assign the value of one data type to another type.
Like moving data from smaller locker to bigger locker int -> double


-- Narrowing Casting (explicit)
moving from bigger locker to smaller locker


Note:  += operators there is by default implicit cast exists


-- if-else
o(n)
-- switch
o(1)
-- Ternary
o(1)

-- loops
when you known the count then use for loop
-- while loop
when you don't know the count but know the condition then use while loop



-- strings
1. the basic :
in java strings are immutable, maning once a string object is created on the heap
it can't be changed;
Why? Security (passwords/

the trap : when you do str = str + "!", you aren't changing the original string.
you are creating a brand new string and throwing the old one in garbage collector;


-- string constant pool (SCP)
a special area inside the heap memory.
Literal vs New keyword


-- equals() vs ==
== (Reference Comparison): Checks if two variables
point to the exact same memory address (the same "locker").

.equals()(Content Comparison): it checks actual text inside the lockers is the same.

-- Complete String constant pool and Heap memory guide
String str = "aryan";
it will place the str into SCP(String constant pool) 1 object

String str1 = new ("aryan")
it will create 2 object one in the SCP(String constant pool)
and 1 in the heap memory

-- why we need SCP
In a massive app, the word "ID", "Name", or "Success" might appear 50,000 times. If Java created a new object for every
single one, your RAM would explode.


1.memory efficiency the reuse factor
instead of having the 10,000 different objects that all said "success", java store it once
and give everyone a "map"like reference

2.performance speed
== vs .equals()
== is easy to compare and take less time
.equals() rather then comparing the each character

3.Security
he SCP only works because Strings are Immutable.
Thread Safety:
many parts of hte program use the same string without worry



-- variable scope and lifetime

instance -- when the object is destroyed
local -- when the method finished
Block -- when the block finished

-- lifetime
--> Local variables live on the Stack. They are born when the method starts and are instantly wiped away when the method
ends. They do not get default values; you must initialize them!

--> Instance variables live on the Heap inside the object. They are born when you say new and live until the Garbage
Collector deletes the object.



